ad2openldap is a tool for replicating user/group information from a Microsoft
Active Directory server into an OpenLDAP server.

ad2openldap exists to:

    Compensate for Active Directory performance issues
    Isolate AD servers from potential overload from bad cluster applications

Initially ad2openldap worked by taking a complete dump of AD users/groups,
stopping OpenLDAP, emptying the database, and reloading all of it.  As that
made OpenLDAP unavailable (sometimes for extended periods) during updates, two
new methods were implemented.  First, a comparison is made between the current
AD dump and the last one, with only the changes being propagated to OpenLDAP
live.  Second, it's much faster to populate the OpenLDAP database by directly
constructing such a database from a template (LDIF file) 
rather than incrementally deleting all and adding all.

For detailed information about using ad2openldap, please see the man 
page - ad2openldap(8).

To get started after installing the ad2openldap package, several settings 
must first be configured in /etc/ad2openldap/ad2openldap.conf.  A note 
on security, ad2openldap.conf must be 640 and root.openldap.

In its current state, ad2opendap is targeted at Ubuntu.  With a few 
slight modifications or perhaps only configuration setting changes, it shouldn't 
be terribly difficult to run on other distributions.

An update usually consists of three steps:

    Groups, users, and NIS group entries are dumped from AD

    If a previous dump is present on the LDAP server, a comparison is made 
    between the two updates.  If they differ, a list of LDAP server update 
    transactions is generated.

    If an update is necessary due to changes from last time, the update 
    transactions are entered into the local LDAP server.

On each LDAP server, the following tools are used:

    ad2openldap - update script invoked by cron via /etc/crontab

In the event that an incremental update is not possible or bypassed using the 
command line parameter '--fullsync', a full update will instead occur.

A full update:

    Dumps groups, users and NIS group entities from AD
    Locks out remote access to the LDAP server via the firewall
    Shuts down the LDAP server
    Writes a new blank database using the LDIF template
    Directly imports AD dump into database
    Restarts LDAP server
    Removes firewall block on LDAP server


Troubleshooting:

Use the --verbose flag to log to STDOUT/STDERR.

The AD dumps and diffs are in /tmp by default:

    ad_export.ldif - current dump
    ad_export.ldif.0 - last dump
    ad_export_delta.diff - computed differences between these files

Possible failure modes are:

LDAP server failure - needs restart, possibly followed by forced full update
if corrupt or incomplete

Firewall block still improperly active - look at update script for removal
syntax (this failure is very unlikely given the current process)

Bad or conflicting AD entities - a forced full update should remedy this
