ad2openldap is a tool for replicating user/group information from a Microsoft
Active Directory server into an OpenLDAP server.

ad2openldap exists to:

    Compensate for Active Directory performance issues
    Isolate AD servers from potential overload from bad cluster applications

Initially ad2openldap worked by taking a complete dump of AD users/groups,
stopping OpenLDAP, emptying the database, and reloading all of it.  As that
made OpenLDAP unavailable (sometimes for extended periods) during updates, two
new methods were implemented.  First, a comparison is made between the current
AD dump and the last one, with only the changes being propagated to OpenLDAP
live.  Second, it's much faster to populate the OpenLDAP database by directly
constructing such a database from a template rather than incrementally
deleting all and adding all.

An update usually consists of three steps:

    Groups, users, and NIS group entries are dumped from AD

    If a previous dump is present on the LDAP server, a comparison is made 
    between the two updates.  If they differ, a list of LDAP server update 
    transactions is generated.

    If an update is necessary due to changes from last time, the update 
    transactions are entered into the local LDAP server.

On each LDAP server, the following tools are used:

    sync-ad-openldap-users-groups.sh - update script invoked by cron via /etc/crontab
    ad-export-users-groups.py - script that dumps current AD entities
    ldiff.py - script that looks at old and new AD dumps to determine differences

In the event that an incremental update is not possible or bypassed using the 
command line parameter '-full', a full update will instead occur.

A full update:

    Dumps groups, users and NIS group entities from AD
    Locks out remote access to the LDAP server via the firewall
    Shuts down the LDAP server
    Writes a new blank database using the template file emptyldap.tar.bz2
    Directly imports AD dump into database
    Restarts LDAP server
    Removes firewall block on LDAP server

A new template file contains a blank LDAP database with the addition of the
structures needed to manage the OpenLDAP server plus empty users/groups
hierarchies.

Troubleshooting:

The logs are on each server in /var/log/ldapsync.log.  
The AD dumps and diffs are in /tmp:

    ad-export.ldif - current dump
    ad-export.ldif - last dump
    ad-export-diff.ldif - computed differences between these files

Possible failure modes are:

LDAP server failure - needs restart, possibly followed by forced full update
if corrupt or incomplete

Firewall block still improperly active - look at update script for removal
syntax (this failure is very unlikely given the current process)

Bad or conflicting AD entities - a forced full update should remedy this
